CP A statically typed general purpose
programming language famous for being
the Workhorse of the windows.net
framework it was created in the year
2000 by Anders hilburg at Microsoft it
was designed as a modern sealike
objectoriented language and was
originally going to be called cool
initially it was criticized as imitation
Java but it's evolved into one of the
most popular and well- Lov languages to
this day it can be used to build almost
anything like desktop apps on net core
crossplatform mobile apps with zamarin
web applications with Blazer and video
games with the unity framework it became
open source software in 2014 and can be
used to build apps outside of the Net
Framework C code is compiled into an
intermediate language which can then be
interpreted by the common language
runtime where it can be executed as
native machine code on any operating
system without the need to recompile
it's known primarily as an
objectoriented language but also
supports functional Lambda expressions
and has the ability to write a
declarative query on any data structure
with a feature called link it's a Memory
safe language thanks to garbage
collection although it is possible to
create an unsaved context if you want to
allocate your own memory with pointers
to get started install the net core SDK
then open the terminal to an empty
directory and Run net new to create a
new application that creates a
program.cs file that Imports the system
namespace at the top then provides a
class with a main function which is
where your code will start executing
declare a variable by starting with a
type followed by a name and value by
default a value cannot be null but you
can make it nullable by adding a
question mark to the type now to
organize our code and share it in other
files we will wrap it in a namespace we
can then create a new class inside the
namespace that has a Constructor when
the class is instantiated and a
Destructor when the class goes out of
scope classes support inheritance
polymorphism and everything else you
would expect in a modern object-oriented
language we can define a property on the
class and make it readable with get or
writable with set the language doesn't
have top level functions but rather
methods that are defined as a member of
a class however it does support Lambda
expressions or anonymous functions and
other functional programming patterns
when it comes to asynchronous
programming it supports a task based
asynchronous pattern allowing you to
write nonblocking code using the async
await syntax now to compile and execute
your code use the net run command this
has been C in 100 seconds hit the like
button and subscribe if you want to see
more short videos like this and let me
know in the comments if you want to see
a fullnet or Unity tutorial thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next
one